Jonathan Figg: Okay, we are doing the intake for Ackerman
Or opioid use disorder.
Jonathan Figg: How are you doing,
Austin Ackerman: Oh good, you
Jonathan Figg: I'm all right. Thanks. So we're doing your intake today and you were referred from San Mateo Medical Center. Right.
Austin Ackerman: Here the hospital.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, cool. And for history of using opiates. Is that right,
Jonathan Figg: Yeah. Okay, great. So our goal we're going to kind of go through some history. We're going to talk about
Jonathan Figg: The medication Suboxone buprenorphine. We're going to talk about how bright heart works.
Jonathan Figg: So we've got a couple things that we're going to talk about the first thing that I'd like to start with is understanding how we got to this conversation.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, and to understand what the history is and what recently happened so so kind of walking through that.
Austin Ackerman: Basically just me. I came up
Austin Ackerman: And then like, What do you mean
Jonathan Figg: So you were referred to us for management of addiction or dependence on opiates. Sorry.
Austin Ackerman: Sorry. There's people making call case file.
Austin Ackerman: It's like Ultra okay so
Austin Ackerman: Sorry, I'm at school.
Austin Ackerman: What we saying
Jonathan Figg: Though you were referred to us to help you manage and recover from history of dependence on opiates. Right.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: So tell me about how you started using opiates.
Austin Ackerman: Let's look here.
Jonathan Figg: Smoking what
Jonathan Figg: That no okay. When did that start
Austin Ackerman: A year ago.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And walk me through what happened over the last year that led us to you being referred to by apart from the hospital.
Austin Ackerman: I didn't like way too much and then I came off. It is super hard.
Austin Ackerman: And then knowing here.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. When did you withdraw from
Austin Ackerman: Like two days ago, but I've been on Suboxone
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so two days ago you were drawing. Did you go to the hospital at that time.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, okay. And they started you on Suboxone and referred you to us.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, because they can since I have private insurance they can
Austin Ackerman: Give me a script.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right. But they gave you at least a script to to start you on it.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, they get. I had to come in every day. So I went in yesterday and the baby.
Jonathan Figg: Okay over to the emergency room.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, um, how did you get started using that little
Austin Ackerman: Is being around
Jonathan Figg: Other people around you in that social situation were using. And you said you were smoking. Yeah. Okay. Did you ever use it in any other way.
Austin Ackerman: No.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right. Did you ever use anything other than final
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, my hero.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And when was that
Austin Ackerman: Same time
Jonathan Figg: Okay, um, was the sentinel from a prescription or was about us. It's true.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah yeah
Austin Ackerman: Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: From when you started
Austin Ackerman: Was that
Jonathan Figg: That's okay. I just want to make sure I want to respect your privacy. So if you have to move
Austin Ackerman: Now, yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, I'll wait a second here.
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So from the time
Jonathan Figg: A year ago that you started using Sentinel
Jonathan Figg: Until now, was the amount that you were using increasing
Jonathan Figg: Yeah. Okay. Are you noticing a decrease in the effect that you were getting from
Austin Ackerman: There. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Did you ever take too much an overdose.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah. Okay. Did you have to go to the hospital for them that time.
Yet
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: How many times did that happen.
Austin Ackerman: Only one time.
Jonathan Figg: Just one time. Okay. And how long ago was that
Austin Ackerman: It will weaken
Jonathan Figg: Okay, alright. So we do you overdose. And then after that you used again or
Austin Ackerman: Did you just read. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And then why did you, why did you come off of this. I know. Why have you stopped using
Is
Austin Ackerman: Just have like too much stuff going to me or is just messing up a lot of things. Okay, yeah.
Jonathan Figg: All right, well, tennis things is messing up
Austin Ackerman: I'm married, let's not mess up my marriage and are just like my relationship like
Austin Ackerman: And then school. I'm a, I'm a barber so
Austin Ackerman: It's like, fuck. I don't know. It just makes me like not do. Okay.
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So what's the, what's the reason that you're interested in Suboxone
Austin Ackerman: Because it's helped me come up with it. Okay. It can come off.
Austin Ackerman: Okay, right.
Jonathan Figg: And so you said you crashed pretty hard.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, she's not using. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: Tell me about the withdrawal that you had what was the first thing we're. What's the first sentence draw that you have
Austin Ackerman: I started throwing blah, and then having a lot of chills for, like, There's goosebumps all over my body and I had to add a in like my body was like buzzing and Lord. Mm hmm. And then we can see me at my feet. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: And so you you started withdrawing a couple days ago. That's when you started going to the hospital even sponsor. Have you withdraw like that before.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, like
Austin Ackerman: We talked about from Suboxone or what
Jonathan Figg: Well, have you withdraw from Sentinel before like that.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, no. Nice. Not that not this hard
Okay see
Jonathan Figg: How were you using a larger amount in this past week and you can use before
Austin Ackerman: Bro, yeah.
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: What is the dose of Suboxone that they started, you ought
Austin Ackerman: To be around. I think they gave me for strips of it. So I think it was like is there eight milligram would
Jonathan Figg: Comes into four or eight know again.
Jonathan Figg: I think they gave rep. If it's like a little dissolvable fill
Austin Ackerman: Me for a first and then give me a so
Austin Ackerman: We went. I went last but they gave me for watching me for like an hour and then gave me a
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And so it was. When's the last time that you took some
Austin Ackerman: Last night.
Jonathan Figg: Last night, okay.
Jonathan Figg: And so that's when they give you four and then gave you a last night.
Austin Ackerman: No, that was the night before that.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. So how much did they give you last night.
Austin Ackerman: The same amount for
Jonathan Figg: The night.
Jonathan Figg: Or just a
Austin Ackerman: Know they gave me to to package.
Jonathan Figg: Gotcha. Okay. All right. I'm just trying to understand what are your dose that you've been
Jonathan Figg: Introduced on there's okay do you take any other medications.
Austin Ackerman: Will take dry lap dog and selects up
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And what about by Vance.
Austin Ackerman: No I don't take
Jonathan Figg: You don't take my bass anymore. And what about Klonopin
Austin Ackerman: No, that was I'VE NEVER I'VE GOT THAT prescribing ones for like a week on me.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, what was the reason that was things were prescribed
Austin Ackerman: Anxiety.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Was it related to withdrawing
Austin Ackerman: He. No, I don't think so. No, actually I think so. I don't know. Actually, I can't remember to be real.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right.
Jonathan Figg: Are you allergic to anything.
Austin Ackerman: No. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Other than it sounds like depression and ADHD are you diagnosed with those anxiety.
Austin Ackerman: Yell manic depression, anxiety,
Austin Ackerman: In yeah
Jonathan Figg: Okay. So when you say manic depression. Do you mean bipolar.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, I have that. Awesome.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And are you seeing a psychiatrist to manage that.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah. Okay. Are you still on the laptop.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, but I just want to make sure I understand all the, all the things going on. All right. Um, have you ever had any surgeries.
Jonathan Figg: No. Okay. All right, so
Jonathan Figg: I'm going to talk a little bit about how bright heart works. So you were referred to us. We are
Jonathan Figg: Tele health organization. Right. So all of our doctors visits and interactions occur we use zoom this the software that we're using for the video call here.
Jonathan Figg: And we're primarily structured around weekly support groups. So we pair people up into a support group. You have a history of opioid use
Jonathan Figg: So we would pair you into a support group of other people who have been or are in a similar situation, who would understand the stressful things that you're going through and can support you and your recovery.
Jonathan Figg: Groups are led by a therapist who has a background in opioid use and addiction medicine.
Jonathan Figg: And has been doing this for a while and on each week. The meeting is about an hour long and starts with a check in with the doctor. So you have a weekly interaction with the doctor who's managing your Suboxone so that we can make sure you're on the right dose or not having side effects.
Austin Ackerman: Or cravings.
Jonathan Figg: If you're having relapse we address it and manage it and help you continue in your recovery and that we don't run out of medication, all of those things. Does that make sense.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: Let's talk about Suboxone so Suboxone as a medication. It's an opiate so fentanyl is an opiate heroin and opiate Suboxone as an opiate
Jonathan Figg: It works differently than the other things that you've used in the past with that knowing heroin. If you think about
Jonathan Figg: What they do in your brain. Think about it like a light switch. They take the light switch that controls your sensitivity to pain and they turn it off.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, they take the light switch that controls whether you're feeling good and enjoying things they turn it all the way on right that's the high euphoria.
Jonathan Figg: They take the part of your brain that controls your ability to breathe.
Austin Ackerman: And they
Austin Ackerman: And now, yeah.
Jonathan Figg: That's when you overdose.
Jonathan Figg: Right yeah Suboxone worse a little bit differently. And that doesn't flip the switch is all the way. Listen, about halfway
Jonathan Figg: So it will keep you out of withdrawal because it moves the switch. It'll pass your cravings to use other things because it moves the switch, but it won't turn your breathing center off.
Jonathan Figg: It won't turn the, the high that the other things cause on the same way.
Jonathan Figg: It tends to be safer because
Austin Ackerman: It's
Jonathan Figg: Difficult to overdose on as long as we're not mixing it with other things that suppress your wakefulness. So benzodiazepines. That's why I asked about
Jonathan Figg: The Klonopin
Austin Ackerman: Or alcohol.
Jonathan Figg: Or the two major things
Do you drink.
Austin Ackerman: Hello.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, there we go. I lost you for a minute.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Ties we're talking about the things the other things that interact with Suboxone that we're concerned about our benzodiazepines like Klonopin
Jonathan Figg: Or alcohol. Those are the two major ones so
Jonathan Figg: I wanted to know do you drink alcohol.
No.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And that's and you're not using any kind of benzo medications anymore like fun event.
Jonathan Figg: Or an event or anything like that. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right. When's the last time you used anything like that.
Austin Ackerman: Right members.
Mm hmm.
Austin Ackerman: None in month
Jonathan Figg: Okay, alright. So those are the two, like I said, those are the two things we don't want you to next thing.
Jonathan Figg: Because Suboxone on its own is almost impossible to overdose on it's really safe. That's why we like it.
Jonathan Figg: But if you make things with it, it can it can put you in that situation like you experienced before with overdose.
Jonathan Figg: So we don't want you to. We want you to be safe and
Jonathan Figg: Our goal is to find a dose for you that keeps you out of withdrawal suppresses your cravings to use other stuff. And at the same time is not so high that is causing side effects. We want you on the lowest effective dose and can may have been started on
Jonathan Figg: To eight milligram tablets or strips. Right.
Jonathan Figg: So we think 16 milligrams
Austin Ackerman: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Does that sound right. Okay.
Austin Ackerman: It might have been to eighth and it might have been eight and four and
Jonathan Figg: You will. You're saying they started you at four before and then a and then the next day they gave each
Austin Ackerman: Other yeah yeah
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so they gave you 12 one day and then I say even 16 so when you took the Suboxone
Austin Ackerman: Before
Jonathan Figg: It's a strip that dissolves under your tongue.
Jonathan Figg: may explain how to take that
Austin Ackerman: And yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, great.
Jonathan Figg: I'm going to go over it again because it's really important. You don't swallow it.
Jonathan Figg: If you swallow it, you won't get the
Medication
Jonathan Figg: It dissolves under your tongue entirely usually takes five to 10 minutes
Austin Ackerman: For you.
Jonathan Figg: All entirely and then afterward, you should not eat, drink or smoke for at least 10 to 15 minutes to make sure nothing washes it down.
Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: When you took it before, did it make you sleepy groggy drowsy.
Austin Ackerman: A little bit early.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: The first time when they gave you four and
Austin Ackerman: Then they gave you the day
Jonathan Figg: After that, after those two doses, did it make you sleep your body
Austin Ackerman: Wasn't groggy
Jonathan Figg: Oh, just like fuzzy
Jonathan Figg: Where you can't think straight or feel drowsy.
No.
Jonathan Figg: No. Okay. Alright, so the first time and then when they gave you the two eights. The next day yesterday and
Austin Ackerman: Found the same
They felt the same
Jonathan Figg: Yesterday morning. Did you have any withdrawal symptoms.
Austin Ackerman: A little bit.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so that's why they gave you a little bit higher. Just this morning.
Austin Ackerman: Did you have
Austin Ackerman: Been through a
Jonathan Figg: You threw up. Okay. But then, then after that. Were you okay
Austin Ackerman: A little bit.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so it's it's 10 o'clock this morning, when what time did you take the Suboxone
Austin Ackerman: Or take
Austin Ackerman: Take it this morning.
Jonathan Figg: No, I mean yesterday. I'm sorry.
Austin Ackerman: You're on seven or eight
Jonathan Figg: In the evening.
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right. And are you feel like you have any withdrawal symptoms, other than the one time you thought through up this morning.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, a little bit.
Jonathan Figg: Little bit. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: So,
Jonathan Figg: What we would do if by heart. Seems like an okay program for you.
Jonathan Figg: If you can commit to a weekly support groups.
Austin Ackerman: Right.
Jonathan Figg: And that's the most. That's the biggest part of this is
Jonathan Figg: The single most important part of your recovery is
Jonathan Figg: That you have accountability and support.
Austin Ackerman: From social aspect.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: I told her I don't want to violate your privacy data.
Austin Ackerman: Now, you're good.
Jonathan Figg: There's other people are out. Okay.
Austin Ackerman: Well, what do you mean like groups like I just check in with a doctor once a week now.
Jonathan Figg: So it's a supporter. So it's about an hour long, it's done over zoom like this with a group of other people who have a history of opioid dependence or addiction.
Jonathan Figg: It start. It's about an hour long, it's led by a therapist. It starts with a brief check in with the doctor to make sure your medication to say and then the therapist goes over some kind of material about preventing relapse or managing stress, things
Austin Ackerman: And this is all confidential.
Correct.
Austin Ackerman: Way. Why is this a recording
Jonathan Figg: So much so bright heart records. These so that we can make our notes from the
Austin Ackerman: Dogs. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And also because
Jonathan Figg: We're what we call a mandatory reporting organization which means if there's any talk about child abuse or elder abuse or something like that, we have to report those things to the police.
Austin Ackerman: That does that make sense.
Jonathan Figg: But it's not shared with anyone else other than for, you know, legal a legal situation like that. Does that make sense.
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So,
Jonathan Figg: What do you let's see I have
Jonathan Figg: We have space in our Tuesday 3pm group, is that a time that would work for you.
Austin Ackerman: I can do that because I'm at work or school from at 8:30am to 4:30pm Tuesday.
Jonathan Figg: Tuesday through Saturday. Okay, so with more for so we need to find a better spot.
Austin Ackerman: For you. Okay.
So,
Jonathan Figg: What we'll do
Jonathan Figg: Is
Austin Ackerman: I can do the industry that don't get a recession, be an alcoholic. He never, never
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so what we'll do is Alice you a prescription for you for your Suboxone
Jonathan Figg: It'll be for a dose of two and a half. It's Australia.
Jonathan Figg: You took two before it's okay, there we go. You took to the eight milligrams trips before and you still threw up this morning.
Jonathan Figg: And you feel like you're in some withdrawal this morning. So my suggestion would be to go up on the dose, a little bit. We don't want to make you sleepy and we don't want you to feel just fuzzy in the head all day. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, but we don't want you what's wrong. So I think we should go up in the dose, a little bit. All this your prescription for that. And then we're going to have the care coordinators give you another call to set up and find a time for a group that works for you.
Austin Ackerman: I understand.
Jonathan Figg: The schedule constraints with work and school. OK.
Austin Ackerman: OK.
Jonathan Figg: For the groups, they're done through zoom. So you you start by calling the virtual clinic, just like you did before you got into my room here.
Okay, yeah.
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And then
Jonathan Figg: Let's see, did they talk to you about doing blood work.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, do I have to do that.
Jonathan Figg: We do need it. So we need to make sure your liver is working well.
Jonathan Figg: Because Suboxone is metabolized by our liver. We don't want it to build up tons a fumble so we just want to check that your livers working well and we checked for
Jonathan Figg: Hepatitis and HIV because in people with a history of opioid opioid dependence, we see a higher rate of that. And if that's positive. We want to help you and treat it because there are treatable. Okay.
Austin Ackerman: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so we'll get
Austin Ackerman: Like I have
Jonathan Figg: What's that
Austin Ackerman: I don't have that.
Jonathan Figg: But we still we still want to check and make sure
Austin Ackerman: Oh yeah that's that's very good, actually.
Jonathan Figg: Right. Um, okay, and then
Jonathan Figg: I think that is all I reviewed your questionnaires here. Okay, I think that's all I have.
Jonathan Figg: So the next steps is the care coordinators, you're going to give you another call to set up a time for your groups. Okay.
Austin Ackerman: Great, so
Jonathan Figg: What's your schedule.
Jonathan Figg: And then you need to go to the pharmacy. I'm going to send your prescription. Let's make sure your pharmacy is correct.
Jonathan Figg: I have Walgreens on El Camino Real
Austin Ackerman: in Burlingame is
Jonathan Figg: OK, so I'm going to send your prescription, they are right now. I usually recommend give it about an hour.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah, it
Austin Ackerman: should pick it.
Jonathan Figg: Up and taking them at night and that works for you then typically I recommend starting with just once a day dosing
Jonathan Figg: And then take it roughly 24 hours apart.
Jonathan Figg: Does that make sense.
Austin Ackerman: Yeah.
Austin Ackerman: All right, and then the, um, the lady before this was talking about. I have to pay $200 or something. But she said, Maybe I don't even have to bake because I got recommended from the hospital.
Jonathan Figg: I'm not sure on the finance stuff. I don't do I don't handle that.
Austin Ackerman: Oh, you know, just things
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, but so so I don't know the answer on that. But the care coordinators would be able to find the answer for you.
Austin Ackerman: OK, so
Austin Ackerman: The Suboxone will be ready.
Austin Ackerman: at Walgreens or no or not. Right now I'm going to be out of school in like four hours.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, so after by the time you're you're done with school, it should be ready. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, okay. What other questions or concerns do you have
Austin Ackerman: So I have one more. So you said, I'm gonna be there. She's going to give me a call, like on the phone.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah.
Austin Ackerman: On this app.
Jonathan Figg: Probably not on this app.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: But I'm going to have them follow up with you to get you set up with a group
Jonathan Figg: Or true schedule. Okay.
Austin Ackerman: Okay, in a way, weapon, if I miss one and then my bed well enough, like I actually missed one of the groups.
Jonathan Figg: So there are legitimate times people have medical emergencies or suddenly have to travel or something like that.
Jonathan Figg: That you can't attend a group
Jonathan Figg: But in general, if you start missing or no showing two groups or not.
Austin Ackerman: You know,
Jonathan Figg: In general, not showing up. We're going to start decreasing the length of your prescription to make you go to the pharmacy more frequently because we would rather you show up.
Jonathan Figg: To group to get your prescriptions so that you can interact with your support group receive
Jonathan Figg: You know therapy and things like that.
Jonathan Figg: Very important for your
Austin Ackerman: Night. I was just wondering
Austin Ackerman: Recovery. Okay. Okay. Thank you so much.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Any other questions before we go.
Austin Ackerman: No, that's it.
Jonathan Figg: Awesome. It was really nice to meet you.
Jonathan Figg: Go pick up your script after school, and we'll get you set up with the group. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right, take care, you have a great day.
Jonathan Figg: Thank you. Bye bye.
Jonathan Figg: Alright, so we're going to start
Jonathan Figg: Just based on the emergency room, having tight radius and little bit up to 16 milligrams, but he still had withdrawal currently and throughout this morning. So we're going to start with an address at 20 milligrams and we're going to send it to a prescription for right now.
And
Jonathan Figg: During the visit our view this as a
Jonathan Figg: Questionnaire and desperate criteria and I pulled his cures report, which showed a district of filling via Vance and clonazepam which he says he doesn't take anymore.
Jonathan Figg: And then we're going to do labs.
Jonathan Figg: Which will order right now and he needs.
Jonathan Figg: To be set up for UDS